PAGE 1
President’s message 
 
Happy New Year fellow dancers! This is a little late, but this year didn’t start off smoothly for any of us, did it? 
Maybe I should say Happy Chinese New Year! Still, the WSDC Board wishes you are all safe and healthy…and 
that 2021 will bring us peace, happiness and DANCE! 
2020 was such a difficult year, and although we can see light at the end of the tunnel, there is still a long road 
ahead. Most Events continue to cancel due to Covid-19. Although some countries are safe (thankfully), the     
majority of the world is still dealing with this pandemic.   
Since 2021 is a new year, the WSDC Board wants you to know that we are thinking a lot about how our dance 
community will return. Our priority remains the health and safety of our dance community.  
To our Event Directors: 
• We will continue to support our Events. If you need to cancel/postpone your event until it ’s safe, 
your Registry status will remain in place.  
• Our Events must comply with all local, state, federal government health and safety regulations        
– that’s mandatory.  
• We will hold off on any new event applications for 2021 – in support of our current events. 
• We are evaluating our current rules to provide more flexibility and greater support for our events    
– more info about this to come. 
 
To our Competitors/Dancers: 
• We are putting in a freeze on our points so that no dancers are negatively impacted by the lack of 
events. This especially affects our Advanced and All Star dancers (i.e., the 3 year window will not 
“expire”).  
• We are evaluating changes to our rules to allow dancers to compete in J&Js as both a Leader and 
Follower (in different levels, at the same event) once events can re-open safely. 
 
However, we believe that when dancing does return, it may start off smaller and more local initially. So once it ’s 
safe to do so, we encourage all of you to support your local dance community and help us regrow our dance!  
In looking to the future for rebuilding our local dance community, as well as returning to our Events, we are  
thankful to fellow dancer Simon Gerard for putting together planning materials to help our dance       
communities. You can reach his Facebook group through our post: 
 www.facebook.com/worldswingdc/photos/a.720057408146617/1818413674977646  
 
As always, if you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to send the Board an email at                       
info@worldsdc.com. 
Again, please stay safe and healthy – we look forward to the time when we are dancing together soon! 
Best, 
 
 
Dani Canziani 
President, WSDC Board of Directors 
 
  
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
February 2021 
Volume 17, Issue 1 
Newsletter                                 
Quarterly                 
www.worldsdc.com  
 
