PAGE 1
President’s message 
 
Hello Dancers – the WSDC made an announcement back in May 2020 regarding upcoming Registry Events, their 
status, and how we are handling this moving forward.  Since it has now been 6 months since the start of this        
pandemic, we felt it important to reiterate our policy on Events. 
 
First and foremost, this pandemic is completely out of our hands.  This is something we cannot control … all we can 
do is continue to be safe, stay healthy and continue with patience and understanding.   We still have no real idea as to 
when this will ease-up enough for us to have a safe dance Event.  And we all need to understand that many events 
are waiting til the last minute to officially cancel due to their hotel contracts and potential costs of canceling, although 
a few events in specific countries are planning to hold their events.  We will continue to post “canceled events” but 
we are moving to a monthly report instead of a weekly report. 
 
Please know that the WSDC is behind you and will continue to support your decision regarding your Event.   For the 
first two quarters of 2021, there will be no penalties or membership fees required if you cancel due to Covid -19 and 
your Registry status will be maintained.  We will most certainly extend this as needed, and simply ask that you advise 
the WSDC as soon as possible when you have made your decision to cancel.  
 
Also – VERY IMPORTANT – if you have dates for your Event for future years (2021 and beyond), we are able to 
post them on the website calendar.  To do this, you must fill out the Event Update form at www.worldsdc.com/
submit-event-updates.  
 
Wishing you all the best, again please stay safe and healthy, and we all looking forward to meeting again soon on the 
dance floor. 
 
If you have any questions for us or if there is any assistance we can provide, please don’t hesitate to contact us 
(info@worldsdc.com). 
 
Best, 
 
 
Dani Canziani 
President, WSDC Board of Directors 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
World Swing Dance Council   
October 2020 
Volume 15, Issue 1 
Newsletter                                 
Quarterly                 
www.worldsdc.com  
 