PAGE 1
President’s message 
 
 
Hello dancers – the WSDC hopes that each and every one of you is staying healthy and safe 
during this ongoing pandemic.  We had high hopes back in March that this would pass by the 
summer … and then the fall … and then the winter.  Obviously, Covid-19 is not going away 
any time soon, but we are confident that 2021 will be better … at some point! 
 
That being said, some countries with lower levels of infection are allowing larger gatherings, 
so a few Events have moved forward with providing an avenue for their dancers. 
 
The WSDC wants to be very clear to everyone …  
 
The health and safety of our dancers and the dance community is of utmost importance. As per 
our rules on ethical standards, all Events must follow their local, state, and federal government 
health and safety restrictions, particularly as it pertains to Covid-19, without exception!  
Events in violation of those restrictions may hold an event but will not be considered a      
Registry Event for that year and no WSDC points will be awarded to competitors. 
 
We understand and appreciate that government Covid-19 restrictions change, sometimes 
quickly, in some areas.  The WSDC wants to ensure the health and safety for our dancers, so 
we expect our Events to fully comply with those government restrictions. 
 
The WSDC policy remains that if a Registry Event cancels due to Covid-19, the Annual  
Membership dues will be absorbed by WSDC and your event will remain in good standing. 
 
Thank you for your understanding.  As always, should you have any questions or concerns, 
please feel free to send the Board an email at info@worldsdc.com 
 
Again, please stay safe and healthy – we look forward to the time when we are dancing       
together soon! 
 
Best, 
 
 
Dani Canziani 
President, WSDC Board of Directors 
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
December 2020 
Volume 16, Issue 1 
Newsletter                                 
Quarterly                 
www.worldsdc.com  
 
