PAGE 1
President’s message 
 
To our Dancers and Event Directors,   
 
The WSDC Board recognizes that as the world starts to re-open, it will be a joy to dance together again!  
 
The Board has held multiple meetings to discuss how Covid-19 is impacting our swing dance community and how 
this will affect our Registry Events. We want to support our events and realize that 2021 will continue to be difficult, 
no matter the location.  
 
We want to emphasize safety, integrity and fairness – while lowering the emphasis on competition for 2021. 
Therefore, we encourage our Event Directors, when it’s safe to do so, to consider holding alternative events (no WSDC 
J&J contests) in 2021 and return to Registry Events in 2022. This is an opportunity to start locally, connect with our 
dance friends at home, and reignite our passion through social dancing.  
 
To our dancers / competitors, we will continue our freeze on Advanced and All Star points through 2021 and into 
2022. We understand and respect the need to protect your status while our dance is rebuilding.  
 
If you wish to hold a Registry Event, you must follow our rules, especially those requirements enforcing the integrity 
of WSDC contests. This includes hiring sufficient judges for all WSDC contests.  
 
Knowing that it will take some time to rebuild our dance community and wishing to support our events, we have 
approved two interim changes:  
 
•     The WSDC Board is expanding our approval of venues to include other options that can provide a unique / 
special experience. If the venue is not a hotel, it needs approval by the Board. No dance studios will be approved. 
  
•     We are lowering the number of unique competitors to 60 (from 80).  
 
We wish to keep you informed, but not all the details have been finalized. Once we get through the entire process, we 
will make a formal public announcement. However, if you have any questions or concerns in the meantime, please 
feel free to reach out to us at info@worldsdc.com. 
 
We look forward to the time when we can be together and dance together safely.  
 
Take care, 
 
 
Dani Canziani 
President, WSDC Board of Directors 
 
  
 
 
 
 
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
March 2021 
Volume 18, Issue 1 
Newsletter                                 
Quarterly                 
www.worldsdc.com  
 
