PAGE 1
President’s message 
 
Hello to our Dance World! I want to give you all a virtual hug… and a virtual lead and follow…  
 
The WSDC Board knows and understands that this is a very scary and lonely time – but you are not alone! We are all 
in this together, and we will get through this together! Our dance community is strong and supportive!  
 
Hopefully you all have been able to keep up on our posts on Facebook.  We are doing our best to communicate 
Events that have had to cancel/postpone their events.  Please know that in this difficult time, we are in support of 
you, and we are working with everyone on a case-by-case basis.  Feel free to contact us with any questions or any 
other way we can assist you through this difficult time.  To reach the entire Board, please direct email to:              
info@worldsdc.com 
 
We encourage you to support our dance community – safely from home! Many pros are offering online classes,   
intensives, workshop weekends, seminars, drills… and the list goes on. Many are offering them for free! If you are 
able, please consider making a donation for their time and energy. Or reach out to them for virtual private dance  
lessons – you can do that via FaceTime, Facebook Live, Zoom and in many other ways (e.g., if you have a video of 
your dancing, they can use that to give feedback and critique).   
 
We also encourage you to simply continue to DANCE! Keep moving! Use this time to work on your personal goals 
and skills. Imagine how wonderful our next big dance gatherings/events will be once we get through this social    
distancing – we are going to be amazingly improved dancers, happy to connect, grateful for our time together, and 
eager to dance with everyone! 
 
Some suggested things to do while staying inside: 
• Practice footwork and musicality 
• Call your family and friends (don’t text, call!) 
• Meditate, yoga, exercise, and stretch 
• Write down something you are grateful for – one a day, every day 
• Learn a new language (we have dance events around the world)  
• Attempt things with your non-dominant hand (writing, eating, brushing your teeth) 
• Learn to cook or bake 
• Start a journal or blog 
• Clean your closet, garage, pantry 
• Paint, draw, or do a puzzle 
• Reflect on your accomplishments, goals 
 
 
Help your local community too! Many restaurants are offering online and free delivery service. See if there are elderly 
in your neighborhood that need assistance picking up medications or groceries. Giving back is good for the soul!  
 
Stay safe, stay healthy, and stay inside! It’s tough to do but please limit your exposure to others as much as you can. 
It’s worth it in the long run for all those that we care about.   
 
If you have any questions for us or if there is any assistance we can provide, please don’t hesitate to contact us 
(info@worldsdc.com). 
 
Best, 
 
Dani Canziani 
President, WSDC Board of Directors 
World Swing Dance Council   
April 2020 
Volume 14, Issue 1 
Newsletter                                 
Quarterly                 
www.worldsdc.com  
 