PAGE 1
 
Page 1 of 3 pages 
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
May 2021 
Volume 20, Issue 1 
Newsletter                                 
Quarterly                 
www.worldsdc.com  
 
President’s message 
 
Hello Dancers – as our world of dance is slowly starting to open, we are cautiously             
optimistic! We have been apart for over a year and are so excited to see each other and dance  
together again.  However, we should continue to take it slow! 
 
As mentioned before, we strongly recommend that events in 2021 focus on the social versus 
competitive side of dancing. All Registry Events will be permitted to cancel in 2021 due to 
Covid without jeopardizing their Registry Event status. We recommend events hold a          
non-Registry Event (no Jack & Jill competitions) for 2021, and return to Registry Events for 
2022. No new Trial Events will be considered in 2021. 
 
Given that countries (and states) have different levels of health guidelines and regulations, we 
require all Registry Events follow their local, state and federal health regulations. We          
appreciate all the hard work our Event Directors have done to stay on top of this!  
 
The WSDC Board has been meeting regularly and working hard to identify ways we can help 
our community rebuild, while balancing the need to maintain the brand and integrity of our 
Registry Events. 
 
We focused on clarifying the specific rule changes that we hope will keep our dance         
community healthy (physically and financially): 
 
• Expanded venue options to keep your event “special” but give you more flexibility 
• Competing in both dominant and non-dominant roles at same event  
• No virtual judging allowed 
• Restricted ‘vaccine only’ / open events 
• Continued “freeze” on Adv / AS 3 year window for points 
• Lower competitor requirements for 2021 
• No new trial events for 2021  
 
As noted above, a couple of the rules are temporary for 2021 (to be re-evaluated later this 
year).  Please refer to pages two and three for the “full details.” 
 
We want our dance community to stay safe, stay strong, and stay supportive of each other. 
We see the light at the end of the tunnel…let’s keep shooting for that! 
 
Until we see you again, 
 
Dani Canziani 
President, WSDC Board of Directors 
 
 

PAGE 2
 
Page 2 of 3 pages 
Venue flexibility for Registry Events 
Over the past several years, the WSDC Board has      
discussed the option to expand approved venues for  
Events from hotels to “other venues”. For the past year, 
since our January 2020 Board meeting, we have spent 
time researching our current Events' venues and listening 
to our membership's concerns and recommendations to 
develop our new guidance. Exceptions to holding       
Registry Events in hotels will still need Board review and 
approval – especially this year.  
 
We wanted to give our Event Directors more flexibility 
with location and costs, while maintaining the brand and 
integrity of a WSDC Registry Event.  
 
Below are our requirements for an acceptable alternate 
venue:  
• The venue must be special – with either architectural 
style or character “above and beyond” (e.g., castle, 
stadium / sports facility, performing arts / cultural 
centers). Dance studios and warehouse-type facilities 
are not acceptable and will not be approved.  
• The venue must have enough dance floor and space 
for attendees. The following are minimum            
requirements: 
 Ballroom must accommodate a minimum of 
150 occupants (as defined by local building 
codes)  
 Ballroom must have a minimum dance floor 
of 2000 sq ft / 186 sq meters 
 Venue must provide full service (food) and/
or options must be available nearby.  We 
strongly recommend our Event Directors 
provide information on nearby hotels and 
available transportation on their website /      
Facebook. 
 
Over the years, the WSDC has held the U.S. to the     
hotel-only standard because they are readily available 
(exceptions are a handful of grandfathered events).      
Outside of the U.S., we have been flexible in markets 
(cities/countries) that do not have access to appropriate 
hotels, and have worked closely with the EDs on these 
choices.  The markets that do have multiple hotels, we 
have held them to the same standard as the U.S.  We are 
now opening this flexibility of non-hotel locations to all 
events in the world.   
We are not stating you must be in a hotel (although it’s 
preferred when possible for a variety of  reasons), but we 
continue to say no to a dance studio.  Studios present a 
conflict of interest.  This is similar to the conflict of   
interest you would see if an Event Director were to be 
allowed to judge or compete at their own event. If the 
studio owner is the ED or is affiliated with the event  
director, there is an appearance of influence on judging or  
other aspects of the event.  Studios do not provide a   
neutral setting for the entire community to be welcomed 
and encouraged to attend.  Hotels and other venues, 
though not perfect, help to lessen the fractions in        
different communities and allow different instructors that 
don’t get along personally to come to a neutral place to 
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
May 2021 
Volume 20, Issue 1 
 compete and to socialize.  Hotels also provide more 
"safety" since everything is contained in one space.    
Studios are where you have your weekly and monthly 
dances.  A Registry Event is designed to be a special  
experience at a different place that draws interstate and/or 
international competitors from around the world.  
 
Be Safe! Be Healthy!  
• Registry Events must follow their local, state and 
federal health guidelines / regulations.  
• Registry Events may cancel in 2021 due to Covid 
without jeopardizing their Registry Event status. 
• WSDC Board encourages events to focus on social 
dancing in 2021 (hold a non-Registry Event!) – and 
return as a Registry Event in 2022.  
 
Restricted / Open Events (i.e., “Vaccine 
Passport” requirements) 
 
The WSDC Board does not take a position on whether 
events choose to hold open or restricted (aka vaccine 
passport only) events. Events, even Registry Events, are 
private businesses and may determine what they need to 
do to be safe – we  consider this a medical decision.  
  
In these difficult times, Event Directors are balancing 
multiple challenges (e.g., hotel contracts, medical / health 
guidelines, financial commitments) and trying to find 
ways to hold an event. Some of these ways may be less 
than ideal and not to everyone’s liking – it’s your choice 
to attend or not. This will be the situation worldwide until 
we are through this pandemic.  
  
Some event directors are exploring an immunity passport 
model to reopen safely. One discussion group cited by 
several EDs is with Dorry Segev, M.D, Ph.D. from John 
Hopkins School of Medicine. It is an interactive page 
where you can post your questions. 
 
Dorry's thoughts on dance and the pandemic: 
https://www.facebook.com/groups/158671312715141 
Alyssa Lundgren’s notes - Meeting #2, April 18, 2021: 
https://www.facebook.com/groups/158671312715141/
files 
 
Take a look at Dorry’s forecast as of April 18, 2021 as to 
when it would be safe to start having events if you use 
the vaccinated only model and his answers to other health 
questions.       
 
As stated before, WSDC Board encourages events to 
focus on social dancing in 2021 – and return as a       
Registry Event in 2022. Competing and earning points 
should be low priority – we hope everyone who attends 
an event does so for their love of dancing and             
reconnecting with our dance friends /family.   
 
No New Trial Events will be approved in 
2021 
 
 
 

PAGE 3
 
Page 3 of 3 pages 
 Non-dominant Role Competing and    
Tracking  
 
Based on the input from our dance community, in      
February 2021, the WSDC Board announced that      
competitors would be allowed to compete as both     
Leaders and Followers in skill level Jack & Jills at any 
given event (previously, competitors had to choose to 
compete in only one role for the skill level J&J for that 
event).  
 
Here are details on how it works:  
• Leader and Follower points will be tracked          
separately in Points Registry.  
• Competitors qualify for their dance level based on 
either their Leader or Follower points, whichever is 
higher. 
• Competitors are allowed to compete in their          
non-dominant role one level down, as long as they 
don’t qualify in both for the same division. No     
petitions will be approved for dancing more than one 
level down. 
• Competitors will not be permitted to dance both roles 
in the same division. 
 
Current competitors whose combined points as both a 
Leader and Follower would have moved them into a 
higher skill level will be offered a one-time option (to be 
“grandfathered” into the higher level). 
 
Competitors – please contact us at points@worldsdc.com 
if any points are/were incorrectly allocated to the wrong 
role in the system. 
 
The WSDC Board is updating our Points Registry      
database to reflect a competitor’s dominant role level 
(“Dance Level”). To keep it simple for contest            
registration, we will also reflect a competitor’s eligibility 
in their non-dominant role.  
 
This rule is not mandatory for events. Events may allow 
competitors to dance in both roles or limit competitors to 
one role only.  
 
Examples:  
• Chris has 5 Int points as a Leader; 1 Nov point as a 
Follower.  
Chris may dance in Int as a Leader and in Nov as a  
Follower. 
• Alex has 20 Adv points as a Follower; 0 points as a 
Leader.  
Alex may dance in Adv as a Follower and in Int as a 
 Leader (one level down). 
•  Jordan has 10 Adv points as a Leader and 10 Adv 
points as a Follower.  
Jordan may dance in Adv as either a Leader or  
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
May 2021 
Volume 20, Issue 1 
 
Follower, but not both. Jordan may not petition to  
dance in Int in either role.  
 
• Taylor has 30 Int points as a Follower and 16 Int 
points as a Leader. Previously, Taylor would have 
been required to dance Adv with a 46 combined 
point total.  
Taylor will make a one-time choice whether to dance  
in Adv as a Follower going forward or to remain in  
Intermediate for both roles.  
 
Virtual judging is not allowed 
During this pandemic, we have been advised that some 
Jack and Jill competitions were judged virtually. To     
clarify, this option is not allowed by the WSDC. Virtual 
judges cannot replace in-person judging – this can impact 
the integrity of the contest.  
 
Lower Competitor Requirements for 2021 
 
In early 2020, the WSDC Board announced the required 
number of competitors would increase to 80. To         
encourage the safe and slow re-entry of dance events, the 
WSDC Board is lowering that number for 2021.   
• For 2021 only, WSDC will require 60 unique     
competitors. These can include both skill level and      
age-based competitors. 
• Registry Events will need to submit their full roster 
of competitors with their reporting form. 
 
Registry Events 
Registry Events are special events where local dancers 
share their love of dancing with other regional, national 
and global dancers. They offer a mix of social dancing, 
instruction and competition in a unique setting, beyond 
the local weekly / monthly dances.  
 
Registry Events must meet certain minimum standards 
and requirements to maintain the integrity of the event 
(e.g., size, staff, judging process, contests, venue). The 
WSDC Board is the governing body for WSDC Registry 
Events and administers the Points Registry for competitor 
Jack and Jill points. 
 
Continued “freeze” on Advanced / All Star 3 
year window for points 
 
Hooray! Our Points Registry finally reflects a            
competitor’s Advanced / All Star dance level correctly, 
including our “freeze” on the 3 year window!  
 
Competitors will continue to be awarded points during 
this period, but no competitors will be penalized for not 
having the opportunity to compete. We will continue to 
leave this window open for the foreseeable future.  
 