PAGE 1
 
Page 1 of 2 pages 
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
February 2022 
Volume 21, Issue 1 
Newsletter                                 
Quarterly                 
www.worldsdc.com  
 
WSDC International Advisory Committee 
The World Swing Dance Council Board is thrilled to announce the formation of our International Advisory      
Committee! Our stated goals for this committee are three-fold: 
 
• Represent the voices of the dance community to the Board 
• Help disseminate information / decisions of the Board to the rest of the dance community  
• Act as a core team to weigh in on proposed rule changes  
 
Our members are (in alphabetical order by country): 
 
Australia     Emma Collier 
Austria      Yuval Yaary 
Brazil /Switzerland    Joao Parada 
Canada      Sonya Dessureault - Co-Chair 
France      Valentin Dhote 
Germany     Christian Kaller 
Hungary     Adam Balasy 
Korea      Heejung Jung 
Latvia      Renars Sirotins 
Netherlands     Gordon MacDonald 
New Zealand     Chris Pugmire 
Poland      Marta Nita 
Romania     Andrei Bereczki 
Russia      Elena Kotelnikova 
Singapore     Wee Tze Yi 
Sweden.     Ibirocay Regueira 
United Kingdom    Paul Warden 
Ukraine - California    Nataliya Kane 
USA      Chuck Brown 
USA, Texas     Ruby Lair 
USA, Texas & NY    John Lindo - Co-Chair 
 
Event Listings 
Just a reminder that every year as an event director, you need to submit event details for your weekend dance event 
to be listed on our calendar.  If you don’t fill out this form, your event is not listed.  Here is the link: 
 
https://www.worldsdc.com/submit-event-updates/ 
 
Typically your event is posted 24-48 hours after receipt of the form. 
 
No New Trial Events will be approved in the first 6 months of 2022 
As dancing and events slowly return, to support our current Registry Events, the WSDC Board is extending its mor-
atorium on new Trial Events through the first 6 months of 2022. The Board will re-evaluate this topic in mid-2022.    
Lower Competitor Requirements for 2022 
In early 2020, the WSDC Board announced the required number of competitors would increase to 80. To encourage 
the safe and slow re-entry of dance events, the WSDC Board is lowering that number for 2022.   
• For 2022, WSDC will require 60 unique competitors. These can include both skill level and age-based        
competitors. 
• Registry Events will need to submit their full roster of competitors with their reporting form.  

PAGE 2
 
Page 2 of 2 pages 
W O R L D  S W I N G  D A N C E  C O U N C I L 
February 2022 
Volume 21, Issue 1 
 Be Safe! Be Healthy! 
 
• Registry Events must follow their local, state and federal /country health guidelines / regulations.  
• Registry Events may cancel in 2022 due to Covid without jeopardizing their Registry Event status.  
• Members are allowed to choose to hold a non-Registry Event in 2022 due to Covid and return as a Registry 
Event in 2023.  
 
Free Covid Rapid Antigen Test kits in the USA and a recap of Dr. Dorry Segev’s Town 
Hall on WCS in the time of Covid 
Tracy Wang hosted a Town Hall on December 19, 2021, in which Dr. Dorry Segev, M.D, Ph.D. from John    
Hopkins School of Medicine (Dorry) gave his recommendations and thoughts on safe practices for Event       
Directors and for dancers attending events in 2022 given the Omicron wave.  Dorry has since made some updates 
posted on January 31, 2022, which are included in this article.  
Since the beginning of the pandemic, Dorry’s recommendation is that the only safe way to gather in larger groups 
is through vaccinated only gatherings.  Recently he stated that you could include unvaccinated people who have 
had Covid 19 within the past 3 months with certain criteria (See bullet point 6 in the full article).  WSDC events 
must follow local, state, health and federal/country government guidelines, but it ’s an individual choice for event 
directors on whether events choose to hold open or restricted events. 
Dorry’s recommendations below are for events that choose vaccinated only for their weekend dance event      
format.  Dorry’s recommendations will change over time as we get to herd immunity and other benchmarks are 
met.   
 
1.  Require people to have "up to date vaccination" rather than to be "fully vaccinated".  If you have an event 
March 1, 2022, for example, you will need attendees to have received their first two doses of vaccine within the 
past 6 months or to have had their booster on September 1, 2021, or later.  Dorry feels that eventually the CDC 
will change its definition of what is considered "fully vaccinated" but thinks that they're very late to the game and 
so we need to change our definition as a responsible dance community.  As of today ’s date, everyone in the USA, 
who wants a booster should have access to one.  Attendees just getting vaccinated need to wait two weeks after 
their second dose to attend a vaccinated only dance event.  There are apps that are being used at dance events 
now that are tracking the vaccine criteria for event directors.  Dorry is recommending that the algorithms be   
updated to follow this protocol.   
2.  If you want a "probably very safe but not the safest possible" event, you need to either require masks or     
testing (in addition to #1). Right now, with the speed at which Omicron spreads, Dorry thinks "responsible     
testing" needs to be at-the-door rapid testing, with testing every night of a multi-day event. It's a pain, but if   
people don't want to test, they can just wear a mask.  Dorry has been dancing in a mask (including fast lindy hop) 
for a year now, and performing surgery in a mask for many many years.  Masks are cheap, easy for attendees to 
carry.  Most attendees will bring their own. 
 
3.  If you want a "much safer" event, you need to require masks AND testing (in addition to #1). At least until the 
big Omicron wave attenuates.  
4.  The logistics of the rapid antigen tests seem a bit daunting, but there are events that are making it happen 
(testing every day of the event prior to admission into the ballroom).  Events that test need to administer or watch 
the testing to verify the results.  Some events are using Facetime, Zoom or other platforms to monitor the tests. 
 You could potentially have a team that watches people test in their hotel room and then give them their arm band 
at the registration desk if they test negative or have them isolate if they test positive.  
5.  There will be some issues with the timing of Omicron and boosters. For example, if someone was doing their 
part, got their mRNA vaccines in July, was due for a booster in December, and got Omicron right before they had 
a chance to get their booster, then you have a bit of a dilemma. There's no good guidance for when, after you get 
Omicron, you should be getting a booster. Also, getting Covid *IS* a booster. So one thing you could do  …...  
 
To see the full set of recommendations as well as 4 newspaper articles from Dorry’s Facebook page, click on this link: 
 
http://www.worldsdc.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Free-Covid-Rapid-Antigen-Test-kits-in-the-USA-and-a-
recap-of-Dr.-Dorry-Segevs-Town-Hall-on-WCS-in-the-time-of-Covid-Full-Article.pdf 